# Container
This folder contains various container build instruction files.
* The `DevDockerfile` builds a container from github sources and installs some helpful modules and libraries before that.
* The `Dockerfile` builds a container from a wheel build. This is used for the official container built.

**Note**: there are other Dockerfiles for specific purposes. For an onlinevalidator container at `accessories/onlinevalidator/Dockerfile` 
and a vscode remote container at `.devcontainer/Dockerfile`.


## Repository
Our main container registry is at [quay.io](https://quay.io/repository/mwalzer/pymzqc?tab=tags). 
Its builds are made by github actions (for releases) and pushed to quay.io [mwalzer/pymzqc](https://quay.io/repository/mwalzer/pymzqc?tab=tags&tag=latest) reporitory.
Another container repository for the mzqc-validator is at [mwalzer/mzqc-validator](https://quay.io/repository/mwalzer/mzqc-validator?tab=tags&tag=latest); see more the accessories documentation for the onlinevalidator.


## Container Engine Flavours
Thanks to the intercompatibility of many container systems, we can use different container engines to run pymzqc. This section is meant as a cheat-sheet for quick switching.

### Podman
> Note: if you don’t specify a name for a container, it will be assigned an autogenerated name (e.g. friendly_cannon). It also means you will create a different container every time you use `podman run` and keep it if you don't also specify the `--rm` option.
>
> __Get__ an image:
> `podman pull quay.io/pypa/manylinux2010_x86_64:latest`
>
> __Create, run and enter__ a container named test based an image 
> `podman run -ti --name test docker.io/library/python:3.6.9-slim-buster bash`
> Will give you an interactive shell. Issue exit to exit and stop the container.
> Using podman ps you can check that there is not a running container named manytest.
> With `podman ps -a` you can see that the container is here.
>
> To __start__ again and __enter__ inside the container
> `podman start -ia manytest`
> Note that start has many other arguments like `--name`, `--hostname`, `--network`, `--mount` that might be of interest. [See podman docs.](https://docs.podman.io/en/latest/markdown/podman-run.1.html) 
>
> To __delete__ the container
> `podman rm manytest`

